= The Yogo Data Management Toolkit

== DESCRIPTION:

Scientists are generating an ever increasing amount of data, however, the resources available to help them manage that data have never been able to keep pace. The Yogo Data Management Toolkit provides the much needed tools for scientists to do complex data management tasks with a minimum of effort. The toolkit is designed to be simple for novice users, yet still harnesses powerful functionality for large scale, long term data management. It also provides intuitive and adaptable tools for technical users wanting to use only a part of the toolkit, or integrate it into their existing work flow. Scientists know what data is relevant to their research, Yogo takes advantage of this by providing an intuitive way to express that knowledge to create a system that allows the end user to collect, analyze and publish data. Some of the cutting edge features of Yogo include i. users to evolve data models, ii. user designed data collection forms, iii. a robust annotation tool that allows annotations from preselected ontologies or the development of an ontology dynamically through tag tracking and curation, and iv. a pervasive revision control system that catalogs every modification to a project including models, data collection forms, collected data, annotations, and publication sets.

== INSTALL:

=== Development Requirements

To use the code from the github repository you will need to add the github gem repository and the datamapper gem repository to your gem sources:

  gem sources --add http://gems.datamapper.org
  gem sources --add http://gems.github.com

=== Persevere

You will also need to have a copy of Persevere running somewhere for development. The easiest way is to download it from the persevere project and run it locally. Details can be found at the {Persevere Project Site}[http://www.persvr.org/index.htm]

=== Ruby Gem:

=== Manual Download:

=== Git:

Checkout the latest code from the {github repository}[http://www.persvr.org/index.htm].

== LICENSE:

<b><em>This is the standard OSI approved MIT license.</em></b>

Copyright (c) 2009 Montana State University

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.
